---
title: UNSC Meeting 8564 – 2019-06-26
slug: 2019-06-26-pv8564-ip
date: 2019-06-26 09:45:00 UTC-04:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 8564 (2019) – 2019-06-26 
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2018-12-12-pv8418-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-12-19-pv8695-ip/">➡️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
    
United Nations Security Council S/PV.8564

Seventy-fourth year, 8564<sup>th</sup> meeting

Wednesday, 26 June 2019, 9.45 a.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 13 June 2019 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2019/488](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2019/488?direct=true))

Seventh report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2019/492](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2019/492?direct=true))

Letter dated 21 June 2019 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2019/514](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2019/514?direct=true))


Extracted from Meeting Records: [https://docs.un.org/en/S/PV.8564](https://docs.un.org/en/S/PV.8564?direct=true#page=22) p.22

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Takht-Ravanchi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majid_Takht-Ravanchi)**

Mr. President, I wish to thank you for having organized this meeting, which deals with an important issue for the whole international community, namely, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), which, according to the Secretary-General, is a demonstration of successful multilateralism and a major achievement in dialogue and diplomacy.

As the Council is well aware, the JCPOA is founded on two pillars: Iran’s nuclear-related commitments and the commitments of other participants, which should bring about economic benefits to Iran. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is mandated to verify and monitor the implementation of Iran’s nuclear-related commitments, and it is doing so. The IAEA’s 15 consecutive reports have confirmed Iran’s continued full compliance with its commitments. Therefore, the first pillar is completely fulfilled, with the highest possible standards.

But what about the second pillar? Has it been realized? This pillar is composed of two complementary commitments: the lifting of sanctions and the promotion of normal economic and trade relations with Iran. This fact has twice been stipulated explicitly in the JCPOA, which states:

“The JCPOA will produce the comprehensive lifting of all United Nations Security Council sanctions as well as multilateral and national sanctions related to Iran’s nuclear programme, including steps on access in areas of trade, technology, finance, and energy”.

Likewise, resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) emphasizes that “the JCPOA is conducive to promoting and facilitating the development of normal economic and trade contacts and cooperation with Iran”. In addition, the resolution,

Underscoring that Member States are obligated under Article 25 of the Charter of the United Nations to "accept and carry out the Security Council’s decisions,"

...

“2. Calls upon all Member States ... to take such actions as may be appropriate to support the implementation of the JCPOA, including by taking actions commensurate with the implementation plan set out in the JCPOA and this resolution and by refraining from actions that undermine implementation of commitments under the JCPOA.”

As Security Council sanctions can be annulled only by itself, this organ, through resolution 2231 (2015) and acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, terminated all its sanctions against Iran. Regarding multilateral sanctions, under the JCPOA, the European Union (EU) and its member States are committed to adopting “an EU regulation, ... terminating ... all nuclear-related economic and financial EU sanctions”. Likewise, on national sanctions, according to the JCPOA, the United States is committed to “ceasing the application of the statutory nuclear-related sanctions”.

In addition, in accordance with the JCPOA, the EU, its member States and the United States will “refrain from any policy specifically intended to directly and adversely affect the normalization of trade and economic relations with Iran” and will not “undermine the successful implementation of this JCPOA”. Furthermore, according to the JCPOA, the United States will “make best efforts in good faith to sustain this JCPOA and to prevent interference with the realization of the full benefit by Iran of the sanctions lifting”.

But what has happened in practice? The United States withdrawal from the JCPOA and the imposition of its illegal sanctions rendered the JCPOA almost completely ineffective with respect to Iran’s benefits, which is of course a clear violation of the United States commitments under the JCPOA and a breach of its obligations under resolution 2231 (2015).

The United States also brazenly continues to threaten other States to either violate resolution 2231 (2015) or face punishment. That irresponsible conduct by a permanent member of the Council, unprecedented in the history of this organ, is a frontal attack on resolution 2231 (2015), violates the Charter of the United Nations and international law and further erodes trust and confidence in the Council. As a result, the United States itself is not fulfilling its obligations under resolution 2231 (2015), is not allowing Iran to implement certain parts of the JCPOA and is preventing other States from implementing their obligations under the resolution.

Nevertheless, over the course of a year after the United States withdrawal, Iran’s only reaction was to give the remaining JCPOA participants, mainly the E3, at their request, week after week and month after month an opportunity to compensate for the consequences of the United States withdrawal. However, Iran’s goodwill and maximum restraint, as well as the repeated promises by other participants to seek practical solutions, yielded no concrete results.

By exercising its policy of strategic patience in order to preserve the JCPOA, Iran has paid a heavy price as a result of the United States economic war and its so-called maximum pressure policy, including its attempts to cut Iran’s oil exports to zero and to disrupt free trade with Iran. In practical terms, the JCPOA has become an agreement that is being respected by only one party. A multilateral agreement cannot be implemented unilaterally. Iran has done a great deal and much more than its fair share to preserve the nuclear deal. Iran alone cannot and will no longer shoulder all the burdens to preserve the JCPOA.

Therefore, in order to protect the security and national interests of the people of Iran and to bring a balance to the JCPOA, on 8 May Iran decided to limit, in the first phase of its plan, the implementation of its commitments in two cases, namely, with regard to the level of reserves of enriched uranium and heavy water as identified in the JCPOA. At the same time, I must stress that this decision is in full conformity with paragraphs 26 and 36 of the JCPOA, according to which, in the case of a reintroduction or reimposition of the sanctions or such an imposition of new nuclear-related sanctions, Iran will have the right “to cease performing its commitments under this JCPOA in whole or in part”.

In fact, as stated by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, that is a minimum measure that Iran could adopt a year after the United States withdrew from the JCPOA and reimposed its illegal sanctions. In line with Iran’s decision, if adequate practical measures are not taken by the other JCPOA participants and the international community in general within 60 days, Iran will be forced, in the second phase of its plan, to “suspend compliance with the uranium enrichment limits and measures to modernize the Arak heavy water reactor”.

As stated in our Supreme National Security Council’s statement, the Islamic Republic of Iran entered into negotiations in good faith, agreed to the conclusion of the JCPOA in good faith, implemented its commitments in good faith and, after the United States withdrawal, provided the remaining JCPOA participants enough time to shoulder their responsibilities with goodwill. The remaining JCPOA participants, particularly the E3, must now either demonstrate their goodwill by taking timely, adequate, serious and practical steps to preserve the JCPOA, which is now in a critical condition or, along with the United States, accept full responsibility for any possible consequences.

While Iran is determined to vigorously secure its interests against the economic terrorism of the United States and all its mischievous plots and plans, the international community should also resist United States bullying and lawlessness if we want our world to be governed by the rule of law, not the rule of power, and by the force of logic instead of the logic of force. We should not allow the fabrications, disinformation or deception of the United States to set the agenda.  

One example is its disinformation campaign and the hue and cry about Iran’s missile programme in relation to resolution 2231 (2015). Iran’s missiles are designed to deliver conventional warheads and are not designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons. Accordingly, they are outside the purview of resolution 2231 (2015). To develop a conventional ballistic missile programme is an inherent right under international law and is neither prohibited nor limited by resolution 2231 (2015). Living in such a volatile region as the Middle East, the Islamic Republic of Iran will not compromise its security or its conventional defence capability, as no other country does.

American officials claim that the sanctions are not intended to hurt the people of Iran but, in practice, entirely the opposite is true. The sanctions are basically designed to harm the general public, particularly those who are vulnerable, such as women, children, the elderly and patients. The sanctions harm the poor more than the rich, the ill more than the healthy and infants and children more than adults. In short, those who are most vulnerable suffer the most. For instance, patients who have severe conditions and therefore need scarce and expensive medicines and advanced medical equipment, which in most cases must be imported, suffer the most.

Just one example among thousands is the dire need of a 38-year-old Iranian woman for a certain medicine that is not available in Iran. In 1987, during the Iran-Iraq war, when she was seven years old, her neighbourhood in an Iranian border city was bombed and she was wounded by the chemical agents provided to Saddam Hussein by some Western States. To breathe normally, she needs a certain medicine that now cannot be imported because all possible ways are blocked by the United States despite its claim that such cases are exempt from sanctions but, in practice, they are not. That is the real meaning of not hurting the Iranian people — true hypocrisy. The United States is weaponizing food and medicine against civilians, which is a clear manifestation of the collective punishment of an entire nation, amounting to a crime against humanity and thus entailing international responsibility.

Now, let’ us delve into the Americans’ claim of negotiations without preconditions and their demand for us to meet diplomacy with diplomacy. What do they mean by diplomacy and negotiations without preconditions? For them, diplomacy means withdrawal from a deal that was recognized globally as a significant achievement of multilateralism; it means the reimposition of sanctions, in violation of the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015); it means punishing other States for implementing that resolution; it means the so-called maximum pressure policy; it means imposing sanction after sanction; it means collective punishment of an entire nation; it means waging a true and all-out economic war against an entire nation; it means economic terrorism; it means military adventurism and sending spy drones into Iranian airspace; it means more military build-up in the Persian Gulf; it means designing more plots to divide regional countries and create further tension among them in order to sell more arms to the region. The list goes on and on.

We are a nation that, as attested by our history, resists aggression, intimidation and coercion. Conversely, we respond very well to civilized behaviour, respect and honesty. Trust is the main prerequisite and the minimum requirement for entering into a meaningful dialogue. This can be represented only in deeds, not in deceptive and sugar-coated words. As long as illegal anctions are in place, one cannot be expected to trust the offer of an honest and genuine dialogue.

Finally, our observations on Secretary-General’s report ([S/2019/492](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2019/492?direct=true)) are contained in a letter that I sent to Your Excellency yesterday, which covers our views on issues that I have not addressed in my remarks today.

Last but not the least, today the United States representative repeated again a few of his country’s baseless allegations against Iran. As my country has responded to those allegations, either through our Foreign Ministry or at relevant international forums, I do not want to dignify them with an answer. However, some accusations have been raised for the first time in an open meeting of the Security Council at which we are present. I must also put on record our view on those subjects.

With respect to the United States spy drone, as I mentioned in my letter of 20 June to the Secretary-General and the President of the Security Council, our credible, detailed and precise technical information on the path and points of intrusion of the drone leave no doubt that, when targeted, it was flying over Iranian territorial waters. We have maps here that clearly indicate that the drone entered four miles deep into our airspace. On 21 June, the debris of the targeted drone was retrieved from Iran’s territorial waters and displayed to the media. In regard to that incident, Iran acted in self-defence, in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations and in full conformity with international law. Instead of rejecting credible technical information, the United States must accept the responsibility for its wrongful act.

With regard to the oil tanker incidents, we have already rejected the baseless United States claim, which is part and parcel of its Iranophobic campaign by which it resorts to deception, fabrications and disinformation. The United States claim in that regard has not even been supported by some of its closest allies. Today, one country of the region distanced itself from the United States claims and officially stated that it could not honestly point the finger at any country because it did not have evidence. Neither fabrication nor blaming others can change the reality. The United States must stop its military adventurism and false-flag operations in the broader Persian Gulf region.

<br>
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2018-12-12-pv8418-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-12-19-pv8695-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-06-26-pv8564-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
