---
title: UNSC Meeting 8695 – 2019-12-19 
slug: 2019-12-19-pv8695-ip
date: 2019-12-19 15:00:00 UTC-05:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 8695 (2019) – 2019-12-19 
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-06-26-pv8564-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2020-08-17-res-draft-2020-805-ip/">➡️</a></th>      
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.8695

Seventy-fourth year, 8695<sup>th</sup> meeting

Thursday, 19 December 2019, 3 p.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 4 December 2019 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2019/925](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2019/925?direct=true))

Eighth report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2019/934](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2019/934?direct=true))

Letter dated 16 December 2019 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2019/952/Rev.1](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2019/952/Rev.1?direct=true))

Extracted from Meeting Record: [http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8695](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8695?direct=true#page=21) p.21

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Takht-Ravanchi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majid_Takht-Ravanchi)**

The Security Council is once again considering the implementation of one of its most important resolutions, namely, resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true), which is being vehemently violated by a permanent member of the Council — an unprecedented development in the history of the United Nations. In that regard, I wish to express my appreciation to the other 14 members of the Council for lending their valuable support to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ([JCPOA](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?&page=8)).

When the Council, through its unanimous adoption of resolution 2231 (2015), endorsed the JCPOA, the whole world acclaimed a significant achievement of dialogue and multilateral diplomacy and acknowledged its indispensable contribution to international peace and security. The resolution emphasizes that

“the JCPOA is conducive to promoting and facilitating the development of normal economic and trade contacts and cooperation with Iran” (resolution 2231 (2015), thirteenth preambular paragraph).

As the Secretary-General rightly notes in his recent report,

“An essential part of the Plan is the lifting of nuclear-related sanctions on the Islamic Republic of Iran, allowing for the normalization of trade and economic relations.” ([S/2019/934, para.1](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2019/934?direct=true))

Furthermore, based on the JCPOA, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States committed to ensuring Iran’s access in the areas of trade, technology, finance and energy, and the United States committed to preventing interference with Iran’s realization of the full benefits of the lifting of sanctions.

On 8 May 2018, the President of the United States issued a presidential memorandum entitled, in part, “Ceasing United States Participation in the JCPOA”. In fact, the United States decided to illegally withdraw from the JCPOA and, in contravention of its international obligations, re-imposed all of its sanctions, which had been lifted in accordance with the JCPOA. That and subsequent developments rendered the JCPOA with respect to Iran’s benefits almost fully ineffective. In certain respects, the situation now is even worse than before the JCPOA was concluded. Since then, the application of the United States unlawful sanctions has been extended to other States and, in essence, the United States is punishing them for honouring their international commitments in accordance with resolution 2231 (2015) — another unprecedented development in the history of the United Nations.

What the United States sanctions are intended to achieve amounts to collective punishment of the general public, which is prohibited even in armed conflicts. They are also targeting the most vulnerable groups of ordinary people in order to create discontent within society — as such, that is inhumane in nature.

The United States sanctions are also targeting different sectors of the Iranian economy, including the oil and banking sectors, which is negatively affecting the daily lives of millions of Iranians. Contrary to the claims of United States, its sanctions are neither short of war or better than or an alternative to war; they are actual war but by another means and name, pure and simple. The United States, by weaponizing food and medicine and with total disregard to the ruling of the International Court of Justice of 3 October 2018, has even extended its sanctions to other humanitarian goods.

Officials of the United States have confirmed that the pain of sanctions for ordinary people is intentional and part of a political strategy. The United States Secretary of State has gone on record at least twice with his conditions for allowing food and medicine to flow to the Iranian people.

By any measure, the United States sanctions are illegitimate, immoral, inhumane and cruel. It is a shame that the United States bullying has resulted in the discontinuation of exports of certain medicines to Iran, causing a nightmare for some patients. For instance, a European company, under the pressure of United States sanctions, has stopped exporting special bandages for patients suffering from epidermolysis bullosa, a rare genetic condition resulting in easy blistering of the skin. A 2-year-old girl from the city of Ahvaz, Ava, an epidermolysis bullosa patient, is one of the “butterfly children” — so called because their skin is as fragile as a butterfly’s. To avoid infection, butterfly children should be covered by special bandages. Not even those bandages stop the pain. However, the alternative is horrible, as it peels kids’ soft skin at the time of removal. Nowadays, the importation of those special bandages for epidermolysis bullosa has become almost impossible, endangering the lives of innocent children like Ava. Now butterfly children are feeling the pain of the inhumane United States sanctions with their hearts and souls. Ava was relieved of pain forever when she passed away in June. Her story reflects only the tip of the iceberg, as children and adults with cancer and rare diseases are struggling in silence with death. Killing children and patients takes no courage.

The United States maximum pressure policy and sanctions are tantamount to economic terrorism and are killing innocent people. Those who have been involved in designing, advocating and executing those sanctions must therefore be held accountable. The Secretary-General is expected, consistent with his mandate under paragraph 7 of presidential note ([S/2016/44](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2016/44?direct=true)), to thoroughly report on United States sanctions and their inhumane impact.

The United States has further illegally sanctioned nuclear measures authorized under resolution 2231 (2015), thereby preventing Iran and other States from implementing their commitments. Moreover, activities of the procurement channel have been negatively affected. Despite all the hardships inflicted on the Iranian people as a result of the United States unlawful sanctions, Iran, at the request of other JCPOA participants and based on their assurances of compensation, waited for a year and continued to fully implement its commitments. On 6 July and 24 September 2018, Iran was assured by JCPOA participants of compensation, especially in establishing effective financial channels, the export of oil, shipping and insurance, and protection from the extraterritorial effects of United States sanctions. None of those assurances have materialized to date.

Iran has been, and continues to be, committed to the implementation of the JCPOA. That fact has been confirmed time and again by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), including after the reintroduction of unilateral sanctions by the United States. However, the unilateral implementation of the JCPOA is not sustainable. The deal needs more than one willing and able party to be fully implemented. After exercising strategic patience for a year, in the face of apparent continued inaction by the European participants in the JCPOA, and after witnessing that the promises made to Iran were not honoured, Iran was left with no other option than to act and take the necessary measures to rectify the imbalance created in the JCPOA. In doing so Iran, which had already triggered and exhausted the JCPOA dispute-settlement mechanism, eventually applied the remedy manifestly recognized by the JCPOA and the Security Council. That decision was carefully crafted to save the JCPOA.

Iran has ceased performing its commitments in part in accordance with paragraphs 26 and 36 of the JCPOA. To give room for diplomacy, a step-by-step approach with two-month intervals has been designed. Iran’s steps are reversible, but the damages inflicted upon Iran and the Iranian people due to illegal sanctions are not reversible at all. How can the opportunities that have been lost, the economy that is affected and, above all, the precious lives that have perished, as well as the suffering of the Iranian people, especially children, the elderly and patients, be reversed?

Iran has ceased implementing only some voluntary measures. They have not affected Iran’s cooperation with the IAEA. They are also not inconsistent with our safeguards-related obligations. The Agency has repeatedly confirmed that Iran is subjected to the most robust verification system in existence anywhere in the world. It is noteworthy that in 2018 the number of all IAEA safeguards inspections around the world stood at 2,195, while up to November this year Iran was subjected to more than 688 inspections, amounting to 1,376 person-day of inspections.

Iran has always respected its commitments and responded to logic with logic and respect with respect. However, we cannot and will not accept bullying from any quarter. Our response to threats and intimidation is in kind. At the moment, best efforts in good faith are being made by Iran to sustain the JCPOA. As soon as the full implementation of the JCPOA by other participants is guaranteed, Iran will immediately reverse all its measures. If there is a will for the full implementation of the JCPOA by all concerned, there is a way. However, Iran cannot remain indifferent to the continuation of illegal sanctions and the lack of a compensatory response to those sanctions by other participants. Iran will take the necessary measures to secure its national interests, and our options are not limited. At the same time, any unnecessary and unwarranted measures against Iran will be met with decisive action, as has already been conveyed at the highest level to our JCPOA partners.

The United States offer of unconditional talks with Iran is disingenuous, emanating from its habit to enter dialogue from a position of strength, and it is not based on an equal footing. The call for dialogue with Iran and the simultaneous insisting on the application of a maximum pressure policy against the Iranian people are mutually exclusive. Iran does not negotiate under the threat of a sword. The United States has to make a strategic decision. As an American proverb goes, you cannot have your cake and eat it too. Either the United States rejects diplomacy and continues with its horrible and outdated maximum pressure policy, while scolded by the Iranian people and branded at the international level as an untrustworthy partner, or it can act as a normal country and undo the sanctions. In that context, the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) by the United States will pave the way for a genuine dialogue to start within the framework of the nuclear deal.

Since the conclusion of the JCPOA, a few countries have attempted to expand the involvement of the Security Council to issues beyond Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme. In the course of the nuclear negotiations, we resisted the temptation of some participants to include extraneous matters in the final document, and hence did not agree either to touch Iran’s legitimate defensive capabilities or affect its role in the region, including in the fight against terrorism. Recent attempts to link those issues, including through the misinterpretation of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015), are completely unjust.

Acquiring legitimate means of defence is an inherent right under international law. We are living in a volatile and insecure region. Furthermore, the sale of a large amount of heavy weaponry to our region has turned it into a powder keg. Those who ask Iran to limit its legitimate conventional capabilities are making lots of money from exports of deadly weaponry to the region. Under no circumstances will Iran compromise on its security.

Iran does not possess nuclear weapons and committed in the JCPOA to never seek, develop or acquire them. Accordingly, Iran’s missiles are not designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, and therefore are outside the purview of resolution 2231 (2015). The term “designed to be capable” was deliberately chosen pursuant to cumbersome negotiations in order to exclude Iran’s conventional missiles from the scrutiny of the resolution. That notion is well reflected in Iran’s statement following the adoption of resolution 2231 (2015) (see [S/PV.7488](https://docs.un.org/en/S/PV/7488?direct=true)). The arbitrary reinterpretation of the resolution by recourse to non-legally binding definitions of an informal, and yet exclusive, 35-member club like the Missile Technology Control Regime is totally misleading and therefore unacceptable.

In conclusion, our observations with regard to the Secretary-General’s report are contained in my recent letter to the Council and cover our views on issues that have not been addressed in my remarks today. I take this opportunity to also make a few comments regarding the observations made by some members on issues irrelevant to this meeting’s agenda.

First, on the attack against the Aramco oil facilities, we have repeatedly and categorically rejected all allegations against us in that regard. As the Council might recall, immediately — I repeat, immediately — after the attack, both the United States and Saudi Arabia claimed that Iran was responsible for the attack. Such claims were fully consistent with their typical practice in similar situations insofar as they first accuse Iran and then pretend that they will conduct a thorough investigation. The predetermined outcome of such an investigation has been, and continues to be, predictable. They consistently result in some forced photos or videos or fabricated documents proving Iran’s so-called direct or indirect involvement.

Secondly, today the Council has also been misinformed regarding the ongoing situation in the Middle East. The common denominator of the past and present situation in the Middle East is that the United States, through its divide-and-rule policy, has consistently and continuously fanned and fuelled regional conflicts. In turn, Iran has been and will remain a strong force against insecurity, terrorism and extremism in the region. One living example of that is our assistance to the Governments and the peoples of Iraq and Syria in defeating Da’esh.

Despite all these attempts, nothing can disconnect the strong historic, cultural and religious fraternal bonds among the countries of the region. We have always supported the establishment of a security structure in the Persian Gulf area. The recent initiative of our President, known as the Hormuz Peace Endeavour, is the right plan introduced at the right time. We are prepared to engage with our neighbours to arrive at a mutually agreed plan as soon as possible.

Thirdly, raising Iran’s internal matters in this meeting is in gross violation of the very basic principles upon which the Organization is founded. Paragraph 7 of [Article 2](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/un-charter/full-text) of the Charter of the United Nations clearly prohibits the Organization’s intervention or interference in the internal affairs of States. We totally reject the allegations raised against my country in that regard.

<br>
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-06-26-pv8564-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2020-08-17-res-draft-2020-805-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2019-12-19-pv8695-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
