---
title: UNSC Meeting 8930 – 2021-12-14
slug: 2021-12-14-pv8930-ip
date: 2021-12-14 15:00:00 UTC-05:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 8930 (2021) – 2021-12-14 
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-06-30-pv8811-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-06-30-pv9085-ip/">➡️</a></th>      
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.8930

Seventy-sixth year

8930th meeting

Tuesday, 14 December 2021, 3 p.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 1 December 2021 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2021/992](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/992?direct=true))

Twelfth report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2021/995](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/995?direct=true))

Letter dated 7 December 2021 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2021/1019](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/1019?direct=true))

Extracted from Meeting Record: [http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8930](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8930?direct=true#page=19) p.19

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Takht-Ravanchi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majid_Takht-Ravanchi)**

It is heartening that today the Council once again is expressing its consistent position that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) must be restored and implemented in full. That, however, can be realized only if all necessary conditions are met in real terms. Make no mistake — we are not imposing any preconditions or new conditions. We are talking about the same conditions that are embedded in the [JCPOA](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?&page=8) and in resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true), the same conditions that form the very foundations of the JCPOA and the same conditions that resulted in reciprocal commitments of the parties to the JCPOA. Without full satisfaction of those conditions, the accord is useless to the Iranian people. We therefore call for the full, timely, unconditional and verifiable implementation of the JCPOA — no more, no less. Attempts to link the implementation of the JCPOA to extraneous issues or to raise ideas such as the renegotiation of the JCPOA to expand its scope, extend its timelines or make proposals along the lines of “more for more” or “less for less” are totally unacceptable and doomed to fail.

Let us refresh our memory with a flashback to the underlying causes of the current situation. The JCPOA is founded on two pillars: Iran’s nuclear-related commitments and the reciprocal commitments for the lifting of sanctions by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States of America against Iran, as well as the promotion of normal economic and trade relations with our country. All those commitments are meticulously worded and explained in detail in the JCPOA and in resolution 2231 (2015). In accordance with the JCPOA, other parties are committed “to ensure Iran’s access in areas of trade, technology, finance and energy”. Specifically, the United States, in addition to its obligation to lift sanctions against Iran, is explicitly committed

“to make best efforts in good faith to sustain this JCPOA and to prevent interference with the realization of the full benefit by Iran of the sanctions lifting”.

The fact is that we have been completely deprived of our rights and benefits under the JCPOA for almost four years. Now, certain States try to deceptively portray our insistence on the full and verifiable restoration of our rights as an unconstructive and inflexible position. At the same time they are dead silent about the unlawful and inhumane sanctions of the United States, which by any measure represent an all-out economic war against Iran, aimed at collectively punishing an entire nation, targeting the most vulnerable people the most, harming the poor more than the rich, the ill more than the healthy, and infants and children more than adults. Those acts are indeed equivalent to economic terrorism. In that regard the Special Rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights calls the United States sanctions unjust and harmful, destroying the economy and currency of Iran, driving millions of people into poverty and making imported goods unaffordable, including urgently needed humanitarian goods.

The United States has committed multiple cases of significant non-performance under the JCPOA and still is in continuous, systematic material breach of its legal obligations under resolution 2231 (2015), the [Charter of the United Nations](https://legal.un.org/repertory/art1.shtml) and international law. It is also in defiance of the unanimous order of the International Court of Justice of 3 October 2018, requiring the United States to remove impediments to humanitarian trade with Iran. As a result of such gross violations of international law, the scope and extent of the damage to the Iranian people and economy are severe, resulting in the loss of many lives, as well as vast and serious disruption to our economy. The United States has also exerted unprecedented pressures on other States to either not implement their obligations under resolution 2231 (2015) or face punishment. That is unprecedented in the Security Council’s history. While we have taken certain remedial measures in accordance with the JCPOA to re-establish some balance in the reciprocal commitments and benefits under the accord, certain States refer with much fanfare to Iran’s remedial measures, as if to suggest that it was Iran that withdrew from the JCPOA and introduced countless inhuman sanctions with the publicly declared objective of starving an entire nation.

They also make a hue and cry about all our current peaceful nuclear activities, as if Iran had violated its obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Yet, those parties are silent about the repeated terrorist attacks and disruptive measures of the Israeli regime against our peaceful nuclear programme. We reiterate once more that our measures are remedial in nature and are taken in full conformity with our obligations under the NPT and our safeguards agreement. Moreover, they are in line with our rights under paragraphs 26 and 36 of the JCPOA, according to which, in case of

“a re-introduction or re-imposition of the sanctions […], or such an imposition of new nuclear-related sanctions, [Iran will have the right] to cease performing its commitments under this JCPOA in whole or in part”.

More importantly, our steps are completely reversible. We are continuing our remedial measures concurrently with the Vienna talks because the non-performance of obligations by other parties continues. Sanctions are still in full force, a maximum pressure policy is still being pursued, and the sufferings of our people still persist. Nevertheless, as soon as other parties implement all their obligations in a full, effective and verifiable manner, Iran will immediately reverse its measures in full.

Conversely, the sufferings of our people due to the non-performance by other parties of their obligations, particularly those resulting from the re-imposition of the illegal sanctions of the United States, are almost absolutely irreversible. How can one restore the precious lives lost because of the inhuman sanctions of the United States? How can one bring back to life those lost due to the weaponization of humanitarian goods? How can one revive the lives of innocent children who perish because the United States has opted to prevent their access to the most essential medicines?

Bearing in mind those realities, we insist on the effective removal of all sanctions at once and in a verifiable manner. The way that the United States has treated its international obligations has necessitated such an approach because in international law, the implementation of agreements is first and foremost founded on the principle of pacta sunt servanda. Its simple meaning is that the agreement must be kept. That is the oldest universally agreed principle of international law and is fundamental to all legal systems. That principle has been flagrantly violated with respect to the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015). As a result, an entire nation has been subjected to the most comprehensive and repressive coercive political, economic and financial measures ever imposed on a country.

When such a customary and fundamental principle of international law is mocked, trampled upon and violated, no nation trusts the culprit. Nor do we. Therefore, the provision of verifiable and objective guarantees that the delicate balance of commitments will not be torpedoed any longer, that the obligations will not be violated again, that sanctions will not be re-imposed under other pretexts or designations — as took place during the previous Administration of the United States — and that the JCPOA mechanisms will not be abused is absolutely necessary. Those are the minimum requirements for relative certainty about the sustainability of the deal.

We cannot and will not allow our economy and the daily economic life of our people be taken hostage through non-compliance by other parties to their commitments once more. We entered into negotiations and agreed the JCPOA’s conclusion with good will. We implemented our commitments with good will. And, in the aftermath of the withdrawal of the United States, we provided enough time, with good will, for that country to remain a JCPOA participant to shoulder its responsibilities. Only after one year did we take certain remedial measures even though, based on the JCPOA, Iran was entitled to exercise such right immediately after the unlawful withdrawal of the United States therefrom.

Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme has been under the most robust and intrusive nuclear verification monitoring and transparency measures ever conducted in a country during the history of non-proliferation. Since the establishment of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), no country has ever been inspected so thoroughly. The implementation of our commitments has been verified by the IAEA, as reflected in its 15 consecutive reports. After the withdrawal of the United States, Iran exercised maximum restraint and paid a heavy price to preserve the JCPOA. Therefore, asking for objective and verifiable guarantees from the party responsible for the whole mess before us is absolutely warranted and necessary. Iran has done much more than its fair share to preserve the JCPOA and those who have violated their commitments under the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015) since implementation day quite naturally bear more responsibility to revive it. They cannot play victim and blame Iran. If the other sides have the genuine political will to revive the JCPOA, they must be courageous enough to accept full, effective and verifiable implementation of all their obligations agreed upon under the JCPOA in 2015.

Concerning paragraph 3 of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015), we once again reject attempts to make arbitrary and distorted interpretations of that paragraph to deceptively establish a link between it and the launches by Iran of ballistic missiles and space-launch vehicles. According to the detailed technical and legal reasoning that we have made in our numerous letters to the Council’s President, the launches of ballistic missiles and space-launch vehicles by Iran are completely outside of the purview of resolution 2231 (2015). Developing a conventional missile programme is an inherent right under international law and is neither prohibited nor limited by resolution 2231 (2015). We will continue our activities related to ballistic missiles and space-launched vehicles, both of which are necessary to ensuring our security and socioeconomic interests.

Allow me to conclude by stressing that the current Vienna talks can succeed, not by engaging in blame games, not by setting artificial deadlines, not by introducing threats and intimidation, not by raising unfounded accusations or disinformation campaigns, and not by permitting sabotage, disruptive or terrorist activities in Iran, but only by engaging in negotiations with genuine political will and in good faith, and by sticking to one principle: the full, effective and verifiable implementation by all sides of all commitments under the JCPOA — nothing more and nothing less. That is the most pragmatic and easily achievable solution at the earliest time. There is no magic solution.

Iran is determined to make every effort to restore the JCPOA as is. To that end, our proposals put forward in Vienna are in full conformity with the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015). We have demonstrated our genuine political will, seriousness and constructive engagement with our interlocutors to arrive at a good agreement as soon as possible. Now, it is time for the other side to prove that they are genuinely willing to accept and implement, effectively and in good faith, all the JCPOA commitments.

Our observations on the report of the Secretary-General ([S/2021/995](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/995?direct=true)) are contained in my letter dated 10 December to the Secretary-General, covering our views on issues that I have not addressed in my remarks today.

Lastly, I would like to say a few words about what was said this afternoon concerning our region. Iran’s foreign policy is based on full respect for international law, mutual respect, good-neighbourliness, cooperation and dialogue, as well as the maintenance of regional peace and security through the active participation of all regional States. We are determined to pursue this policy in good faith. Our recent approach towards our neighbourhood arises from our strong conviction that the regional countries should join hands to resolve their differences amicably, not allowing those who have come to this region from thousands of miles away only to sow the seeds of discord among the countries of the region. An important source of insecurity and instability in our region is the massive United States military build-up, which has turned the region into the highest concentration of foreign military installations in the world. Our region’s other source of insecurity is the massive United States arms export thereto. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, from 2016 to 2020 almost half of the arms exports of the United States, the largest arms exporter globally, went to the Middle East. The United States is not the only culprit here. Certain European countries also export deadly weapons to regional countries. That policy of Western countries has turned our region into a powder keg.

Furthermore, the terrorist acts of the United States have created an atmosphere of instability and insecurity in our region. A clear example is the heinous assassination of Major General Qasem Soleimani and his companions in Iraq in early 2020 in a terrorist attack committed at the direct order of the United States President. It is ironic that the United States and some European countries are now accusing Iran of destabilizing behaviour.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-06-30-pv8811-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-06-30-pv9085-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-12-14-pv8930-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
