---
title: UNSC Meeting 8811 – 2021-06-30
slug: 2021-06-30-pv8811-ip
date: 2021-06-30 10:00:00 UTC-04:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 8811 (2021) – 2021-06-30 
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2020-08-17-res-draft-2020-805-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-12-14-pv8930-ip/">➡️</a></th>
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.8811

Seventy-sixth year, 8811<sup>th</sup> meeting

Wednesday, 30 June 2021, 10 a.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 16 June 2021 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2021/578](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/578?direct=true))

Eleventh report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2021/582](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/582?direct=true))

Letter dated 24 June 2021 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2021/602](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/602?direct=true))

Extracted from Meeting Record: [http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8811](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.8811?direct=true#page=20) p.20

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Takht-Ravanchi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majid_Takht-Ravanchi)**

I would like to thank the briefers for their reports. The Council’s message today on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ([JCPOA](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?&page=8)) and resolution 2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) is loud and clear: the JCPOA must be implemented and there is no better alternative.

Despite such encouraging statements, we have recently heard — including in this meeting — discouraging statements from a few Council members pointing their fingers at the victim instead of demanding that the culprit act responsibly. They have deliberately ignored the fact that Iran’s steps in ceasing the implementation of some of its commitments are remedial in nature. They have called on Iran to come to full compliance with its JCPOA commitments as if it were Iran that withdrew from the JCPOA; as if it were Iran that reimposed or introduced countless inhumane sanctions with the publicly declared objective of starving an entire nation; as if it were Iran that brazenly threatened all States either to violate resolution 2231 (2015) or face punishment; as if it were Iran that pursued a maximum pressure policy; and as if it were Iran that made every attempt to kill the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015) forever.

Our record and that of the United States with respect to the JCPOA are clear. The challenges of the JCPOA’s implementation cannot be assessed in isolation. Those challenges arose when President Trump started to demonize the JCPOA even before coming to office and to harass Iran’s business partners, and later in 2018, when he unilaterally and unlawfully withdrew from the JCPOA and by reimposing sanctions waged an all-out economic war against Iran with the deliberate objective of starving the Iranian people. Weaponizing food and medicine is prohibited, even in wartime, and is indeed a manifestation of crimes against humanity.

Nevertheless, instead of taking immediate remedial measures allowed by the JCPOA, we exercised strategic patience for one year, but to no avail. Our maximum restraint was responded to with the so-called maximum pressure policy of the United States and the appeasement policy of Europe.  

Only one year after the United States withdrawal, we took certain remedial steps authorized by the JCPOA’s paragraphs 26 and 36, according to which, in case of “a re-introduction or re-imposition of the sanctions” (resolution 2231 (2015), annex A, para. 26), Iran has the right to cease performing its commitments in whole or in part.

At the same time, Iran’s response was applied in a reasonable and incremental manner in order to provide more time for common sense to prevail. Yet while Iran’s steps are reversible, the sufferings of our people are not. Of course, we cannot and will not overlook hundreds of billions of dollars of damages inflicted upon the Iranian economy. But unfortunately, precious lives lost due to sanctions are irreversible.

How can the pain, grief and emotional problems throughout the life of a kid for the loss of his or her mother due to the lack of certain medicines, the import of which was prevented by sanctions, be compensated? How will the lifelong suffering of mothers and fathers who have lost their children owing to the lack of medicines for rare diseases be relieved and compensated? That is the factual context in which the current implementation status of the JCPOA must be evaluated.

We must recall that the JCPOA is not a one-way street. It is founded on two pillars: Iran’s nuclear-related commitments and the reciprocal commitments for the lifting of all sanctions by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States of America, as well as promoting normal economic and trade relations with Iran. All those commitments are meticulously worded and explained in detail in the JCPOA and in resolution 2231 (2015). 

Since the Council’s previous meeting on resolution 2231 (2015) (see S/2020/1324), nothing has changed except the verbal declaration of the United States of its intention to return to compliance with the JCPOA. In reality, until this very moment the maximum pressure policy and the draconian sanctions against our people still continue, and the United States remains in violation of the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015).

Even despite the unanimous order of the International Court of Justice, on 3 October 2018, obliging the United States to remove impediments to humanitarian trade with Iran, all humanitarian goods, including much-needed medicine and medical equipment, have been subjected to sanctions.

The general authorization by the United States Treasury Department on 17 June 2021 of certain coronavirus-related transactions with Iran clearly and conclusively refutes the previous claims by the United States that such items were exempted from sanctions.

In contrast to certain remaining JCPOA participants, which have only paid lip service to the JCPOA in the past years, Iran is the country that has paid a heavy price to preserve that agreement. Therefore, it is high time for the United States and of course the European Union and France, Germany and the United Kingdom (EU/E3) to make difficult decisions to return to full compliance with the JCPOA.

We fully proved our sincerity during the JCPOA’s negotiation, conclusion and implementation. We have demonstrated our resolute determination to keep it alive by exercising strategic patience and maximum restraint for years. We did that while we were not — and still are not — receiving the intended benefits from the deal. Those who broke their promises are the ones who must prove their sincerity and genuine political will. They are the ones who must take hard decisions.

Therefore, they are not in a position to criticize Iran for taking remedial measures that are fully authorized under the deal, are in no way inconsistent with our obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and our Safeguards Agreement and do not lead to any alleged proliferation concerns, contrary to what certain countries attempt to portray, as our nuclear programme has been under the Agency’s most robust monitoring and verification mechanism. The Islamic Republic of Iran continues to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in line with its international obligations.

IAEA reports, including in the past six months, confirm that there is no safeguards-related issue regarding Iran’s ongoing nuclear activities, and there is no evidence of diversion of nuclear materials to non-peaceful purposes. It should be added that, contrary to what has been declared, the uranium enriched up to 60 per cent and the uranium metal have legitimate civilian applications, and none of them are prohibited under the NPT.

The law passed by our Parliament was indeed a calibrated response to the dismal record of unlawful measures by the United States and the impotence of the EU/E3 to withstand such measures for well over three years. The objective of that law is to retrieve the lost balance in the JCPOA’s implementation, as it clearly states that Iran’s remedial measures are reversible if the JCPOA is fully implemented by others in practice and all sanctions are fully removed.

At the same time, to give more room for diplomacy, a temporary technical understanding was reached between Iran and the IAEA in February and extended in May. Nevertheless, after four months of negotiations nothing has changed in practice, and the Iranian nation continues to suffer from the unlawful sanctions. 

In the past few months, certain attempts have also been made to establish a possible link between paragraph 3 of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015) and the launches by Iran of certain ballistic missiles or space-launch vehicles and consequently to draw an arbitrary conclusion. Paragraph 3 of annex B does not concern space-launch vehicles, for a number of obvious reasons, including their different design, technical nature and mission. In addition, Iran’s ballistic missiles are designed to deliver conventional warheads and are not designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons; accordingly, they are outside the purview of resolution 2231 (2015).

To develop a conventional missile programme is an inherent right under international law and is neither prohibited nor limited by resolution 2231 (20105). The Islamic Republic of Iran, like every other country, will not compromise on its security and its conventional defensive capability.

We are also determined to pursue the realization of our inalienable right to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes despite all plots, sabotage and terrorist acts. The latest such unlawful measures were the assassination of martyr Fakhrizadeh, an outstanding Iranian nuclear scientist, as well as the 11 April terrorist act at the Natanz Fuel Enrichment Plant, with clear indications pointing to the Israeli regime’s responsibility for both cases, as was also recently acknowledged by the former head of Mossad. The Council must hold the Israeli regime to account for such adventuristic practices.

Iran’s decision to negotiate and conclude the JCPOA was based on our principled policy to make the best use of dialogue and diplomacy in advancing our foreign-policy objectives. We have always been steadfast in applying this policy. Iran will remain consistent and resolute in pursuing that approach regarding the JCPOA as long as other parties put an end — completely and without any precondition or further delay — to their bullying policies, violating their obligations and disregarding their promises.

The JCPOA is a deal made to secure the interests of all sides. While we are sincere and serious in current negotiations, our ultimate goal is only to ensure the implementation of the deal as is by all — no more, no less.

Given years of serious violations of the JCPOA by other sides, it is essential to secure enough assurances that all sanctions are removed verifiably and that the United States will not once again withdraw from the JCPOA or abuse its mechanisms to create another implementation crisis to deprive Iran of its benefits from the deal. This is vital for establishing confidence in the full and continued adherence of the United States and E3/EU to their commitments, and thereby creating the calm and stable atmosphere required for promoting and facilitating the development of normal economic and trade contacts and cooperation with Iran, as expressly stated in resolution 2231 (2015). That is of particular importance for Iran’s business partners to conclude agreements with Iran with peace of mind. It is also critical for Iran to fully benefit from the deal’s dividends.

Finally, our observations on the eleventh report of the Secretary-General ([S/2021/582](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2021/582rect=true)) on the implementation of the resolution 2231 (2015) are contained in my letter already submitted to the Council.

In reaction to what has been said in this meeting, I would like to say a few words about our region. We are living in a volatile region. The challenges are enormous, and at the same time the opportunities for better relations among regional countries are great. However, there are forces that do not want to see rapprochement, reconciliation and good neighbourliness established in this region.

The United States, with its interventionist policies in the Middle East, including its unbridled export of sophisticated ordnance and advanced weaponry to the region and its blind support for the Israeli regime, has thrown this sensitive region into chaos and turmoil. The United States cannot distract attention from its military adventurism and destabilizing role in our region by baselessly accusing Iran of violating resolutions [1701 (2006)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/1701%282006%29?direct=true)and 2231 (2015), which I categorically reject. I also reject references made by the British Ambassador to human rights, as they are outside the agenda of this meeting and the purview of the Security Council.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2020-08-17-res-draft-2020-805-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-12-14-pv8930-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-06-30-pv8811-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
