---
title: UNSC Meeting 9085 – 2022-06-30
slug: 2022-06-30-pv9085-ip
date: 2022-06-30 10:25:00 UTC-04:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 9085 (2022) – 2022-06-30 
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-12-14-pv8930-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-12-19-pv9225-ip/">➡️</a></th>     
</tr></table>


United Nations Security Council S/PV.9085

Seventy-seventh year, 9085<sup>th</sup> meeting

Thursday, 30 June 2022, 10.25 a.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 10 June 2022 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2022/482](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/482?direct=true))

Thirteenth report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2022/490](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/490?direct=true))

Letter dated 23 June 2022 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2022/510](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/510?direct=true))

Extracted from Meeting Record: [http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.9085](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.9085?direct=true#page=20) p.20

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Takht-Ravanchi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majid_Takht-Ravanchi)**

I would like to begin by thanking Under-Security-General DiCarlo, Ambassador Byrne Nason of Ireland and Ambassador Skoog of the European Union for their briefings.

Today, almost seven years after the conclusion of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ([JCPOA](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?&page=8)) and the adoption of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true), Council members once again reaffirm their support for the registration and full implementation of the JCPOA. We believe that the Comprehensive Plan of Action is a hard-won, multilateral diplomatic achievement that remains the best option and has no alternatives.

I feel compelled to refresh Council members’ memories about the reasons why we are in the current situation. Unfortunately, certain Council members who have disregarded their own obligations in relation to the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015) continue to ignore the underlying causes of the current situation and present a spurious narrative as to why we are in the Chamber today, attributing certain falsehoods and fabrications to my country.

The commitments under the deal, which were carefully worded and explained in the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015), are explicit and unambiguous. While Iran’s nuclear commitments were connected to the effective lifting of all sanctions and normalization of Iran’s trade and economic relations, the sheer fact is that sanctions are still in place, and Iran is not enjoying the economic dividends as promised by the deal.

In accordance with the JCPOA, other parties are committed to ensuring

“Iran’s access in areas of trade, technology, finance and energy” (resolution 2231 (2015), para. 33)

Specifically, the United States, in addition to its obligation to lift sanctions against Iran, is explicitly committed to

“mak[ing] best efforts in good faith to sustain this JCPOA and to prevent interference with the realization of the full benefit by Iran of the sanctions lifting” (ibid., para. 26).

Despite these explicit commitments, Iran has been denied its rights and benefits for the past four years. Let us remind ourselves that, in defiance of resolution 2231 (2015), and in flagrant violation of international law and the United Nations Charter, the United States withdrew from the agreement on 8 May 2018 and reimposed unilateral sanctions that had previously been lifted, putting unparalleled pressure on other countries to either disregard their obligations under resolution 2231 (2015) or face punishment. This is unprecedented in the history of the Security Council.

Despite the enormous difficulties that we faced as a result of the sanctions, Iran decided to continue honouring its commitments, which was validated by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 15 times, after being promised and assured by the European participants in the JCPOA — France, Germany and the United Kingdom (E3) — that they would compensate Iran for the losses suffered after the United States withdrew from the Comprehensive Plan of Action. Unfortunately, the E3 disregarded their obligations and promises, leaving Iran with no choice but to utilize its rights under paragraphs 26 and 36 of the JCPOA to partially suspend its commitments, on 8 May 2019. In that context, Iran has taken certain remedial measures, in accordance with the JCPOA, to re-establish some balance in the reciprocal commitments and benefits under the accord. However, those particular States refer to Iran’s remedial measures, with much fanfare, in a manner that suggests that it was Iran that withdrew from the JCPOA and reimposed or reintroduced countless inhumane sanctions with the publicly declared objective of starving an entire nation. While the former United States’ Administration recklessly sacrificed a well-established tenet of international law, withdrew from the deal and reimposed sanctions, the current Administration is following in its predecessor’s footsteps as it continues to adopt its notorious policy of maximum pressure and impose sanctions on Iran. There is no doubt that those policies are intended to create leverage in negotiations.

Against that backdrop, I would like to address a few points that clarify our position on the current situation and the ongoing talks. Iran is committed to multilateral diplomacy, whose outcome should assure the effective and verifiable lifting of all unlawful sanctions. Iran has demanded verifiable and objective guarantees from the United States that the JCPOA will not be torpedoed again, that the United States will not violate its obligations again, that sanctions will not be reimposed under other pretexts or designations, as occurred during the previous United States’ Administration, and that JCPOA mechanisms will not be abused. Those are the minimum requirements for determining the deal’s long-term viability. In the course of the Vienna talks, we exercised maximum flexibility and showed good faith in order to reach an agreement that was acceptable to all and even introduced innovative solutions to the remaining issues in the hope of breaking the impasse. However, the United States’ unrealistic and rigid approach has led to the current stalemate.

We are continuing our remedial measures because the non-fulfilment of their commitments by other parties continues. The sanctions remain in full force, the maximum-pressure policy is still being pursued and our people’s suffering continues. Nonetheless, as soon as all of the obligations of the other parties are fulfilled in a complete, effective and verifiable manner, Iran will immediately reverse all of its steps. However, the suffering of our people, as a result of the failure of other parties to carry out their commitments, is almost completely irreversible. Our patients, particularly those with rare diseases, have been suffering from inhumane sanctions, including on medicine and medical equipment. How can the death and suffering of those innocent patients be reversed? That injustice cannot be erased from the memory of the Iranian people.

With regard to our cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as our peaceful nuclear activities, I would like to stress that all of our peaceful nuclear activities are entirely consistent with our rights and obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as well as the Agency’s safeguards agreement. As a responsible member of the NPT, the Islamic Republic of Iran is committed to the principle of collaboration with the Agency and has fulfilled all of its obligations under the NPT and its comprehensive safeguards agreement, as the Agency continues its activities in Iran without hindrance.

Our peaceful nuclear programme has been under the most robust and intrusive nuclear verification, monitoring and transparency measures ever conducted in a country in the history of non-proliferation. Iran has also provided the Agency with the necessary information concerning the alleged locations on 20 March, in compliance with the joint statement agreed to on 5 March and within the timetable established. Despite our unprecedented, strong and proactive cooperation with the Agency, the Agency’s response was neither appropriate nor productive. We were surprised by the Agency’s most recent report on the issue, because we had gone to great lengths to explain and clarify the remaining questions. We responded to all of the Agency’s questions thoroughly, constructively and cooperatively. We believe that the Agency’s recent claims are based solely on erroneous and fabricated information provided by the Israeli regime, which has done everything it can to kill the JCPOA.

Despite Iran’s constructive cooperation with the Agency, the United States and its E3 partners, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, pushed for the adoption of a resolution at the recent IAEA Board of Governors’ meeting, their only motive being to build up their negotiated position in the current talks. We believe that the IAEA’s resolution is politically driven and that it will have negative effects on the ongoing talks, whose consequences will be the responsibility of the resolution’s authors. That childish game must end. As a result, in line with our Parliament’s resolution, we have decided to suspend certain measures that were not covered under the safeguards agreement. However, Iran is willing to continue engaging with the IAEA to address concerns and misunderstandings as long as the issues are technical and non-political. The Agency should respect the principles of independence, impartiality and professionalism in its work.  

During our intensive consultations in Tehran last week with Mr. Josep Borrell Fontelles, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Iran once again emphasized its willingness to provide creative solutions to the remaining issues in the hope of ending the deadlock. We agreed to hold indirect talks with the United States, through the EU, in order to overcome the last hurdles in the talks. We were sincere in the Doha talks, which were serious and positive. As in the past, we will be in touch with the EU Coordinator for the next stage of the talks. Our negotiating team is ready to engage constructively again to conclude and reach a deal. The ball is in the United States’ court, and if it acts realistically and shows its serious intention to implement its obligations, the agreement is not out of reach.

Finally, with regard to the Secretary-General’s report on resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2022/490](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/490?direct=true)), our observations are contained in my letter to the Secretary-General dated 27 June ([S/2022/518](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/518?direct=true)), covering our views on issues that I did not address in my remarks today. However, we believe that the report should have addressed the root causes of the current situation surrounding the JCPOA and focused on the United States’ violations of resolution 2231 (2015), which includes sanctions-lifting commitments. According to some paragraphs of the report, the Secretariat has continued to engage in unauthorized travel and verification visits, as well as taking measures to examine allegations regarding the implementation of the resolution’s annex B. The note by the President of the Security Council (S/2016/44)([S/2016/44](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2016/44?direct=true)) has elaborated on the Secretariat’s mandate on the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015), which is confined to administrative support for the Security Council. Such ultra vires activities by the Secretariat are therefore unacceptable and should be avoided. Similarly, any possible findings or assessments made by the Secretariat are rendered null and void. In that regard, any allegation that may be attributed to the Islamic Republic of Iran is hereby rejected.

In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the region.

First, we categorically reject the baseless accusations and unfounded allegations made about my country in today’s meeting. As a responsible State, Iran is committed to its international obligations and has never engaged in any activity that breaches its obligations, including under resolution 2231 (2015). Our space and missile programmes fall outside the purview of resolution 2231 (2015) and its annexes and are not subject to negotiations.

Iran’s foreign policy is based on full respect for international law, mutual respect, good neighbourliness, cooperation and dialogue, as well as maintaining regional peace and security, through the active participation of all the States of the region. We are determined to pursue that policy in good faith. Our constructive engagement and efforts with the United Nations to assist and support the truce and its extension in Yemen are based on our firm belief that the countries of the region should work together for the peaceful settlement of disputes.

The massive United States’ military build-up and export of sophisticated weaponry, as well as certain European countries’ supply of lethal weapons to countries of the region, have transformed the region into the world’s largest concentration of foreign military installations, making it a ticking time bomb. Another key source of regional insecurity is the Israeli regime’s destabilizing, malicious and terrorist activities in the region, which have always been accompanied by the persistent support of the United States. The Israeli regime has taken every opportunity to threaten and destroy the JCPOA, as well as to undermine Member States’ implementation of resolution 2231 (2015). It has carried out covert operations and subversive and disruptive measures against Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme, as well as the cowardly and abhorrent assassination of innocent Iranian scientists in its efforts to further its sinister objectives in the region.

It is regrettable that some Council members continue to modernize their nuclear arsenals, as recently reflected and acknowledged in a new report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Instead of making unwarranted comments about our current peaceful nuclear activities, they should adhere to their NPT commitments, particularly those under article VI. Those States are also deafeningly silent about the Israeli regime’s nuclear weapons, as well as its repeated terrorist and disruptive activities against our peaceful nuclear facilities. It is high time that we dispensed with double standards.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2021-12-14-pv8930-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-12-19-pv9225-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-06-30-pv9085-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>

