---
title: UNSC Meeting 9225 – 2022-12-19
slug: 2022-12-19-pv9225-ip
date: 2022-12-19 15:00:00 UTC-05:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 9225 (2022) – 2022-12-19
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-06-30-pv9085-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2023-07-06-pv9367-ip/">➡️</a></th>     
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.9225

Seventy-seventh year, 9225<sup>th</sup> meeting

Monday, 19 December 2022, 3 p.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Fourteenth report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) ([S/2022/912](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/912?direct=true))

Letter dated 6 December 2022 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2022/919](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/919?direct=true))

Letter dated 12 December 2022 from the Security Council Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2022/937](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/937?direct=true))

<br>
Extracted from Meeting Records: [https://docs.un.org/en/S/PV.9225](https://docs.un.org/en/S/PV.9225?direct=true#page=19) p.19

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Iravani](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amir_Saeed_Iravani)** 

I thank India for convening today’s meeting. I also thank the briefers for their briefings.

Today, as expected, the members of the Security Council once again expressed their support for the restoration of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and called for its full implementation as the only viable course of action. Obviously, the JCPOA can be restored only by addressing the root causes of the current situation, namely, the United States’ withdrawal therefrom on 8 May 2018.

Since then, the United States has reimposed all of its harsh and inhumane sanctions against Iran, in flagrant violation of its explicit legal obligations under resolution [2231 (2015)](https://docs.un.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true). Moreover, it has pursued its so-called maximum pressure policy against the Iranian people, the aim of which was to starve the Iranian people, as stated openly and shamelessly by the former United States Secretary of State. In reality, the United States has weaponized economic sanctions in its long-standing hostile policy against the Iranian people. Furthermore, as a permanent member of the Council, the United States has brazenly forced all other United Nations Member States to either violate resolution 2231 (2015) or face punishment. That is unprecedented in the history of the United Nations.

Despite the change of the United States Administration in 2021, the country’s maximum pressure policy has remained unchanged. Even though it consistently admits to that policy’s failure, the current Administration continues to implement it more extensively and harshly. It should also be noted that France, Germany and the United Kingdom (E3) continue to fully support and enforce such United States sanctions and policies. They, like the United States, are failing to meet their obligations under the JCPOA.

Nevertheless, today the delegation of the United States played the victim and acted as if it was Iran that withdrew from the JCPOA and was responsible for the current status of the JCPOA. It needs to stop fooling the international community and stop the deception. Its baseless allegations against Iran cannot change the fact that only the United States is responsible for the JCPOA’s current status.

Iran’s full compliance with all its nuclear-related commitments under the JCPOA, even one year following the United States withdrawal from the agreement, is well documented. It has been verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and is reflected in 15 consecutive reports of its Director General.

However, we reacted to the United States withdrawal from the JCPOA and its significant non-compliance with its commitments under the deal, in addition to its flagrant violation of resolution 2231 (2015) after only one year of strategic patience. At the same time, the acts we took were certain remedial measures based on our rights, as plainly mentioned in paragraphs 26 and 27 of the JCPOA. Our objective was simple: to restore some balance in the reciprocal commitments and benefits under the agreement. That was important, since the JCPOA is based on Iran’s nuclear-related commitments in exchange for the lifting of all United Nations, United States and European Union sanctions against Iran, as well as the removal of all the hurdles to Iran’s international economic, commercial and financial cooperation.

Against that backdrop, today I will address four issues: first, the ongoing political process for the revival of the JCPOA; secondly, technical cooperation between Iran and the IAEA; thirdly, our position on the Secretary-General’s report ([S/2022/912](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/912?direct=true)); and fourthly, our response to the accusations against my country made today by certain members of the Council.  

The Vienna talks commenced with the United States expressing its willingness to return to the JCPOA and reverse its failing maximum pressure policy. Iran had always shown good faith and taken a constructive approach during the talks. The negotiations were going well, and constant efforts were being made. Iran’s negotiating team exercised maximum flexibility in order to reach an agreement acceptable to all. To that end, our team even introduced innovative solutions to the remaining issues in order to break the impasse. However, the United States’ unrealistic and rigid approach has led to the current situation.

Contrary to the baseless assertion that Iran has raised issues unrelated to the JCPOA, I can assure the Council that Iran has not brought up any matters outside of the framework of the Vienna talks and the JCPOA. The other parties, especially the United States, decided to withdraw from the negotiation table and send contrasting, ambiguous and paradoxical messages about negotiations. Instead, the United States and the United Kingdom chose to focus on what they have been doing for decades: interfering in Iran’s internal affairs, including by supporting terrorist groups in their villainous attempts to jeopardize the security of the Iranian people. Let me make it clear — pressure, intimidation and confrontation are not solutions and will lead nowhere. If the United States genuinely wants a revival of the JCPOA, it must rely on diplomacy only. 

For its part, Iran reiterates its commitment to dialogue and diplomacy. We are ready to resume the Vienna talks, work cooperatively to reach an agreeable solution and even arrange a ministerial meeting as soon as possible to declare the restoration of the JCPOA. That is achievable if the United States demonstrates genuine political will, stands ready to work towards a satisfying solution and agrees to fully comply with its obligations. The United States now has the ball in its court. It must show that it is honest, trustworthy and capable of keeping its word. The time for action is now. 

With regard to our technical cooperation with the IAEA, I must stress that the issue is entirely outside the purview of resolution 2231 (2015). However, given that certain members of the Council have made unsubstantiated allegations and accused Iran of non-compliance, I would like to emphasize that all of our nuclear activities are peaceful and consistent with our rights and obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and our Safeguards Agreement.

According to the IAEA, Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme has been under the most robust and intrusive nuclear verification, monitoring and transparency measures ever conducted in a country in the IAEA’s history. It has continued to uphold its commitments and has cooperated fully with the Agency in order to maintain its continuity of knowledge regarding Iran’s peaceful nuclear activities. The joint statement by the IAEA and the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran on 5 March 2022 is the latest example of such cooperation. 

Iran’s current remedial measures, including in connection to surveillance equipment beyond its Safeguards Agreement and a robust verification system, would be reversed only if the illegitimate sanctions were lifted and current safeguards-related issues addressed and terminated. The Agency’s impartiality, independence and professionalism should never be jeopardized or influenced by certain parties. We consider the recent resolution of the IAEA Board of Governors a political action. Iran has fulfilled its responsibilities under its Safeguards Agreement. We stand ready to engage with the Agency to resolve the existing outstanding safeguards issues. We hope that the IAEA team’s visit to Tehran will further contribute to addressing such issues. 

While our full observations on the report of the Secretary-General the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) (S/2022/912) are contained in my letter to him dated 15 December 2022 ([S/2022/962](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2022/962?direct=true)), I would like to make a few comments.

Contrary to the Secretariat’s assertion, the scope of the report must include the resolution in its entirety, not only its annex B. That is not Iran’s interpretation, but the precise language of paragraph 7 of note ([S/2016/44](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2016/44?direct=true)) by the Council’s President. Furthermore, the report covers issues that have nothing to do with resolution 2231 (2015). Similarly, it has once again failed to address the root cause of the current situation surrounding the JCPOA, namely, the United States withdrawal from the deal. The report is especially silent on the systematic material breach by the United States and France, Germany and the United Kingdom of their explicit legal obligations under resolution 2231 (2015).

Moreover, the Secretariat’s engagement in the so-called investigation to purportedly examine the alleged violations of the resolution is clearly beyond the mandate entrusted to it by the Council through resolution 2231 (2015) and presidential note S/2016/44. According to those two documents, the Secretariat has no mandate whatsoever on the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015), other than providing administrative support to the Security Council’s work. Therefore, such ultra vires activities by the Secretariat are unacceptable and should be avoided, and any possible findings or assessments based on such activities are null and void.

I must once again reiterate our consistent position that Iran’s space and missile programmes fall outside the purview and competence of resolution 2231 (2015). In conclusion, I would like to address the unfounded allegations that Iran transferred unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to Russia in alleged violation of resolution 2231 (2015).

First, arms-related restrictions under resolution 2231 (2015) were terminated on 18 October 2020. Since then, the transfer of arms to or from Iran is no longer covered by resolution 2231 (2015).

Secondly, invoking paragraph 4 (a) of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015) has no legal merit, as activities under that paragraph require the Council’s prior approval only if the exporting State determines that concerned items, regardless of their inclusion in document [S/2015/546](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/2015/546?direct=true), could contribute to the development of nuclear-weapon delivery systems. Iran has stated officially and in unambiguous terms that it has never produced or supplied, or does it intend to produce or supply, items that it determines could contribute to the development of nuclear-weapon delivery systems. Accordingly, Iran has not transferred to Russia any item that is covered by paragraph 4 (a) of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015). Any claim to the contrary is unfounded and thereby rejected. It is also worth noting that we have already engaged in bilateral talks with Ukraine to clarify the existing misunderstandings on the subject.

Moreover, a number of UAVs that were transferred by Iran to Russia prior to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine and which are not compatible with the technical characteristics set out in paragraph 4 (a) of annex B to resolution 2231 (2015) were not transferred for use in the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Therefore, the misinformation campaign and baseless accusations levelled against Iran must end. Those attempts serve no purpose other than to divert attention from the Western States’ transfer of massive amounts of advanced sophisticated weaponry to Ukraine in order to prolong the conflict.

Finally, we reject making artificial linkages between regional issues and resolution 2231 (2015). However, in response to certain claims about our regional policy, I must reiterate that Iran’s foreign policy is based on full respect for international law, mutual respect, good-neighbourliness, cooperation and dialogue, as well as maintaining regional peace and security through the active participation of all States in the region. As in the past, we stand ready to engage actively and constructively with those States. Let me reiterate once again that we are willing to restart the Vienna talks as soon as possible and without any conditions in order to finalize the existing text, which will allow all parties to return to full compliance with their obligations under the deal. 

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-06-30-pv9085-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2023-07-06-pv9367-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2022-12-19-pv9225-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>

