---
title: UNSC Meeting 9944 – 2025-06-24
slug: 2025-06-24-pv9944-ip
date: 2025-06-24 15:00:00 UTC-05:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Meeting 9944 (2025) - Non Proliferation - English
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<!-- 2025-06-24 meeting. Record of meeting available 2025-07-17 - 24 days. -->
 
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2025-03-12-pv9877-closed-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2025-09-19-pv10001-ip/">➡️</a></th>
</tr></table>


United Nations Security Council S/PV.9944

Eightieth year 9944<sup>th</sup> meeting

Tuesday, 24 June 2025, 3 p.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Letter dated 28 May 2025 from the President of the Security Council, acting in the absence of a Facilitator for the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015) addressed to the President of the Security Council ([S/2025/335](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2025/335))

Nineteenth report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) ([S/2025/397](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2025/397))


Extracted from Meeting Record: [http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.9944](http://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.9944?direct=true#page=23) p.23

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr. Iravani](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amir-Saeid_Iravani)**


I thank you, Madam President, for convening this meeting.

Today is [International Day of Women in Diplomacy](https://www.un.org/en/observances/women-in-diplomacy-day). Let me therefore begin by congratulating you and all women diplomats on this occasion. I also congratulate you, Madam, on your successful leadership of the Council thus far in June and commend your tireless efforts to convene this emergency meeting to divert the Security Council’s attention to the aggression and blatant violation by Israel and the United States against my country.

I wish to sincerely thank our brotherly and friendly nation, the State of Qatar, for its sincere and diplomatic efforts to help end Israeli aggression, establish a ceasefire and prevent further escalation of regional tensions that threaten peace and stability in the region. We thank Under-Secretary-General DiCarlo for her briefing. We take note of the Secretary-General’s report ([S/2025/397](https://docs.un.org/en/S/2025/397)). We ourselves echo the call for a diplomatic solution made by the Secretary-General in his report and the Under-Secretary-General in her briefing today. We welcome the representative of Slovenia, as Facilitator of [resolution 2231 (2015)](https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/797839/files/S_RES_2231_%282015%29-EN.pdf), and express appreciation to Ambassador Žbogar and his team for preparing the report and today’s briefing. We take note of the statement made by Ambassador Lambrinidis, Head of the Delegation of the European Union, in the capacity of Coordinator of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).

First and foremost, I wish to express my strong objection to the participation of the delegation of the Israeli regime in this meeting. Legally and procedurally, Israel has no standing to take part in the meeting. The regime has no connection to the agenda of the meeting nor to resolution 2231 (2015) or the JCPOA. The participants in the JCPOA are clearly defined in resolution 2231 (2015), and the Council’s practice in convening meetings under this agenda item has always limited them to JCPOA participants. This meeting is the final Security Council briefing on resolution 2231 (2015) before its expiration in October. In that context, I would like to make the following points. First, the United States unilaterally withdrew from the JCPOA in 2018. It then imposed illegal extraterritorial sanctions, violating resolution 2231 (2015). Iran has honoured its commitments. In contrast, the United States, with full support from the United Kingdom, France and Germany, has repeatedly violated both the spirit and letter of the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015). The root causes of the current situation are simple and clear. Therefore, they are not in a position to accuse Iran of non-compliance.

Second, today’s meeting takes place as my country faces an unprovoked military aggression that blatantly violates international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the General Conference resolution and resolution 2231 (2015). Resolution 2231 (2015) calls on all United Nations Member States to avoid actions that undermine the resolution and the JCPOA. However, with full United States support, Israel targeted Iran’s peaceful nuclear facilities, civilians and civilian infrastructure. Israel falsely justified those attacks on the basis that Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme was an imminent threat. That claim is baseless and has no legal basis. In reality, Israel — the region’s only undeclared nuclear-armed entity and a non-party State to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) — refuses IAEA inspections and monitoring, while Iran complies with the NPT and has subjected its nuclear programme to the most rigorous IAEA monitoring. Breaches of resolution 2231 (2015) and international law are not limited to Israel. The United States — a permanent member of the Council, responsible for upholding its resolutions — also attacked Iran’s nuclear facilities, which were under IAEA safeguards.

Third, it is profoundly troubling that, even after a decade of resolution 2231 (2015), Iran’s fully monitored peaceful nuclear programme has been repeatedly targeted by Israel and the United States. Those illegal actions set a dangerous precedent, undermine the non-proliferation regime and damage the credibility of the Security Council. Resolution 2231 (2015) was intended to promote a peaceful solution and strengthen the Council’s role in preventing unnecessary crises. However, reckless attacks on Iran’s peaceful nuclear facilities by Israel and the United States have gravely weakened that role. It is disappointing that the Council failed to condemn those illegal attacks, despite the strong request set out in [resolution 487 (1981)](https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/22225/files/S_RES_487%281981%29-EN.pdf), which prohibits such illegal acts. We call on the Council to, at the very least, explicitly condemn those acts of aggression and ensure that they do not happen again.

Fourth, the double standards are blatant. While the United States, the United Kingdom and France maintain massive nuclear arsenals and overlook Israel’s undeclared stockpiles, they baselessly claim that Iran’s peaceful programme is threatening international peace and security. That political accusation has been refuted for years by Iran’s transparency and full cooperation with the IAEA. If they truly care about the non-proliferation regime, they must condemn Israel’s violation of international law, including resolution 487 (1981).

Fifth, claims that Iran has violated resolution 2231 (2015) are groundless. For the past decade, Iran has upheld resolution 2231 (2015) and the JCPOA. Our remedial measures have been fully consistent with those two instruments and are meant only to restore balance and encourage all parties to return to their commitments. Iran’s remedial measures must not be misused to justify new pressure on the JCPOA or resolution 2231 (2015). The Council must prevent any attempt to manipulate that mechanism against Iran.

Sixth, resolution 2231 (2015) must conclude on schedule, and Iran rejects any attempt to revive expired provisions under any pretext. Unfortunately, the European JCPOA participants have failed to meet their obligations. Even worse, they falsely assert that Iran is close to acquiring nuclear weapons — a falsehood, unsupported by credible evidence. Our peaceful programme, under strict IAEA verification, cannot be denied. Despite that aggression and the unconstructive behaviour of the European parties, Iran remains committed to diplomacy and peaceful dispute resolution. Resolution 2231 (2015) proved that diplomacy can and must resolve differences. 

Seventh, Iran continues to believe that diplomatic resolution of nuclear and sanctions issues is possible. Our commitment is evident through our full implementation of the JCPOA and resolution 2231 (2015). But if the other parties truly want a resolution, they must respect Iran’s right and stop undermining diplomacy. 

Eighth, Iran never initiated this war. Once the aggressors stopped their attacks, Iran also stopped its lawful military response. Nevertheless, Iran will not overlook the deceit and double standards. Our brave armed forces remain fully prepared to respond to any further threats or violations.

Lastly, in conclusion, we are now closer to diplomacy than ever before. The long, large-scale war that they thought could force Iran into a so-called “unconditional surrender” and could make it abandon its peaceful nuclear programme through intimidation, threats and the use of force has clearly failed more than ever. They unleashed their full military might, supporting and providing Israel with advanced fighter jets, sophisticated weaponry and the most powerful bombs — even bunker busters — with which to attack Iran’s peaceful nuclear facilities and covertly, deliberately and indiscriminately targeted civilians and critical infrastructure. Those attacks led to the martyrdom of hundreds of innocent people, including women, children, nuclear scientists, academics, athletes, students, aid workers and senior military officials, and left thousands more injured. We honour the martyrs for their sacrifice and our brave patriotic people for their defence of our homeland. Iran emerged proud and steadfast in the face of that criminal aggression. That proves one simple truth more clearly than ever: diplomacy and dialogue are the only path to resolving the unnecessary crisis over Iran’s peaceful programme.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2025-03-12-pv9877-closed-ip/">⬅️</a></th> 
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2025-09-19-pv10001-ip/">➡️</a></th>  
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/2025-06-24-pv9944-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
