---
title: UNSC Meeting 5612 – 2006-12-23 – Resolution 1737(2006)
slug: 2006-12-23-pv5612-res1737-2006-ip
date: 2006-12-23 11:30:00 UTC-05:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Resolution 1737 (2006) – 2006-12-23
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2006-07-31-pv5500-res1696-2006-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2007-03-24-pv5647-res1747-2007-ip/">➡️</a></th>      
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.5612

Sixty-first year, 5612<sup>th</sup> meeting

Saturday, 23 December 2006, 11.30 a.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Resolution 1737 (2006) Voting: 15-0-0

Voting performed before delivery of statement by Iran.

Extracted from Meeting Record: [https://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.5612](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.5612?direct=true#page=8) p.8

Resolution: [https://www.undocs.org/S/RES/1737(2006)](https://www.undocs.org/S/RES/1737%282006%29?direct=true)

<br>

**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran: [Mr.Zarif](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammad_Javad_Zarif)**

Today is a sad day for the non-proliferation regime. Only a few days ago, the Prime Minister of the Israeli regime boasted about his regime’s nuclear weapons, but instead of even raising an eyebrow, let alone addressing that serious threat to international peace and security and to the non-proliferation regime, the Security Council is imposing sanctions on a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons ([NPT](https://www.iaea.org/sites/default/files/publications/documents/infcircs/1970/infcirc140.pdf)) that, unlike Israel, has never attacked or threatened to use force against any Member of the United Nations; has categorically rejected the development, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons on ideological and strategic grounds; was prepared to provide guarantees that it would never withdraw from the NPT; has placed all its nuclear facilities under the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency  ([IAEA](https://www.iaea.org)); fully implemented the [Additional Protocol](https://www.iaea.org/topics/additional-protocol) for over two years, and stated its readiness to resume its implementation; allowed over 2,000 person days of IAEA scrutiny of all its related and unrelated facilities, resulting in repeated statements by the Agency on the absence of any evidence of diversion; voluntarily suspended its lawful enrichment activities for over two years, as verified by the IAEA, in order to build confidence and provide ample opportunity to find a mutually acceptable solution, if that ever were the intention of its negotiating partners; presented various far-reaching proposals to ensure permanent non-diversion; and has consistently called for time-bound and unconditional negotiations to find a mutually acceptable solution — a call that was repeated yesterday by the Iranian Foreign Minister.

The same Governments that have pushed this Council to take groundless punitive measures against Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme have systematically prevented the Council from taking any action to nudge the Israeli regime towards submitting itself to the rules governing the nuclear non-proliferation regime. By so doing, they have provided it with wide latitude and even encouragement to indulge freely in the clandestine development and unlawful possession of nuclear weapons, and even in public boasting about them with impunity.

As I pointed out in my letter of 20 December 2006 addressed to you, Mr. President, it is indisputable that nuclear weapons in the hands of an Israeli regime with an unparalleled record of non-compliance with Security Council resolutions — if that is the criteria that is being applied today — and a long and dark catalogue of crimes and atrocities, such as occupation, aggression, militarism, State terrorism, crimes against humanity and even apartheid, pose a uniquely grave threat to regional and international peace and security. The reversal of the hypocritical policy of strategic ambiguity followed by the Israeli regime has removed any excuse — if there ever were any — for continued inaction by the Council in the face of that actual threat to international peace and security. 

The reaction of the Security Council to the Israeli regime’s unlawful possession of nuclear weapons will show whether the Council is even considering to act — as it is obliged to do under [Article 24](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/un-charter/chapter-5) of the Charter — on behalf of the members of the international community that have made their views on that issue abundantly clear, or whether it is merely a tool in the toolbox of a few of its permanent members, which only misuse it to fix their foreign policy problems and to serve their short-sighted perceived interests.

With such tendencies, it is not at all surprising that a nation is being punished for exercising its inalienable rights, primarily at the behest of a dangerous regime with aggression and war crimes as its signature brand of behaviour, which is apparently being rewarded today for having clandestinely developed and unlawfully possessed nuclear weapons. Does anyone expect that to enhance the credibility of the Council or to strengthen the authority of the NPT?

Put into perspective, today’s resolution can only remind the Iranian people of the historic injustices that this Security Council has done to them over the past six decades. It is reminiscent of the attempt made in the Council to punish the Iranian people for their nationalization of their oil industry, claimed to present a threat to peace. It is also a reminder of the Council’s indifference in the face of a military coup, organized by two of its permanent members, which restored the dictatorship. It refreshes the memory of the Iranian people of the time when the Council did not consider the massive invasion of Iran by the former Iraqi regime as a threat to international peace and security, and refused to even call on the invading army to withdraw from Iranian territory. It brings back the horrors of the long years when this Council turned a blind eye to the extensive and brutal use of chemical weapons against Iranian civilians and soldiers and, by so doing, made itself responsible for the tens of thousands of Iranians who continue to suffer and perish as a result of chemical weapons whose components, incidentally, came from certain countries permanently seated in this Council. We do not need to go far to find those victims. Only last month, I lost one of my brightest colleagues in the mission, Mahdi Vahidi, to cancer caused by those very chemical weapons. He was only 39 years old.

I dealt with the pretexts used for the involvement of the Security Council in Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme in my statement before the Council on 30 July. I will not repeat them today. Allow me to simply make a few points.

The bringing of Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme to the Council by a few of its permanent members, particularly the United States, is not aimed at seeking, nor will it help to find, a solution or at encouraging negotiations. Even their stated objective is not to achieve that. Their stated objective has always been to use the Council as an instrument of pressure and intimidation to compel Iran to abandon its rights. Knowing their bright recent history, we can all assume what the unstated objective has been. Allow me to provide just two examples of the stated objective.

An informal paper entitled “Options for Addressing Iran’s Nuclear Programme at the United Nations Security Council”, circulated by the United States mission in October 2004 — exactly when the United States three European Union (EU) allies were ostensibly engaged in negotiations with Iran — states:

*The United States has long believed that Iran’s nuclear activities must be reported to the United Nations Security Council ... The United Nations Security Council has the legal authority to require Iran to stop its enrichment programme.*

That was the intention. As to our negotiating partners, the Political Director of the British Foreign Office, in a letter dated 16 March 2006 addressed to his counterparts in France, Germany and the United States, revealed the more conniving British plan:

*We may also need to remove one of the Iranian arguments that the suspension called for is ‘voluntary’. We could do [that] by making the voluntary suspension a mandatory requirement to the Security Council.*

The letter gets even more interesting as we read on:

*I agreed to circulate a short paper which we might use as a sort of speaking note with the Russians and Chinese. Implicit in the paper is a recognition that we are not going to bring the Russians and Chinese to accept significant sanctions over the coming months, certainly not without further efforts to bring the Iranians around ... In return for the Russians and Chinese agreeing to a* [Chapter VII](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/un-charter/chapter-7) *resolution,  we would then want to put together a package that could be presented to the Iranians as a new proposal.*

Now we see what motivated the presentation of the infamous package of incentives presented to Iran on 6 June 2006, and now we see why the United States and its EU three partners never even took the trouble to study various Iranian proposals. They were from the very beginning bent on abusing this Council and the threat of referral and sanctions as an instrument of pressure to compel Iran to abandon the exercise of its NPT-guaranteed right to peaceful nuclear technology. It is now an open secret that their sole objective in the negotiations has always been to impose and then prolong and perpetuate the suspension of Iran’s rights, in line with their arbitrary and fluctuating red lines. Finding solutions has never even been among the objectives.

Suspension is not a solution. It is at best a temporary — one might call it a stop-gap — measure to allow time to find a real solution. Such a suspension was in place for over two years and, contrary to the excuse that the proponents of the resolution have presented here and there, the IAEA repeatedly verified that Iran fully suspended what it had agreed to suspend in each and every report from November 2003 to February 2006. So, we had a suspension for two years and on-and-off negotiations for three. The question is: What has been done during those three years to find an agreement?

Have the EU three or the United States presented any proposal on what measures — short of outright revision of the NPT — would remove their so-called proliferation concerns? Having failed to do so, did they ever consider the far-reaching proposals that were offered by Iran in Paris on 23 March, 2005, which the EU three negotiators initially considered to contain positive elements? Did they ever propose how those positive elements could be enhanced or how the points of divergence could be bridged? Or did they, after consultations with a certain absent party, come back and simply say “It is not good enough. Continue to suspend”? Did they even bother to read our proposal of 18 July 2005, which suggested:

*Allow the Agency to develop an optimized arrangement on numbers, monitoring mechanism and other specifics for an initial limited operation at Natanz, which would address our needs and allay [their] concerns*?

Did they ponder the far-reaching non-proliferation potential of the proposal by the [President](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahmoud_Ahmadinejad) of the Islamic Republic of Iran in his address to the General Assembly on 17 September 2005? Let me refresh the memory of Council members. On that occasion, he said,

*in order to provide the greatest degree of transparency, the Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to engage in serious partnerships with the private and public sectors of other countries in the implementation of a uranium enrichment programme in Iran*. ([A/60/PV.10](https://docs.un.org/en/A/60/PV.10?direct=true#page=8) p.8)

Did they respond to the concrete proposal by the [Iranian Foreign Minister](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manouchehr_Mottaki) at the Conference on Disarmament on 30 March 2006? Allow me to quote what he said.

*In our view, one option to resolve the issue could be the establishment of regional consortia on fuel cycle development with the participation of regional countries . . . Of course, countries outside the region may also participate in such regional arrangements . . . The facility would also be jointly owned by the sharing countries, and the work could be divided based on the expertise of the participants.* ([CD/PV.1015](https://docs.un.org/en/CD/PV.1015?direct=true#page=6), pp. 6-7)

Were these suggestions not an exact replica of the main proposal of the IAEA experts on multinational approaches to nuclear fuel cycle activities published on 22 February 2005? For those members who may have not seen the [report](https://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/Publications/PDF/mna-2005_web.pdf), it suggests

*promoting voluntary conversion of existing facilities to [multilateral nuclear approaches (MNAs)], and pursuing them as confidence building measures, with the participation of NPT non-nuclear-weapon States and nuclear- weapon States, and non-NPT States . . . [and] creating, through voluntary agreements and contracts, multinational, and in particular regional, MNAs new facilities based on joint ownership, drawing rights or co-management for front-end and back-end nuclear facilities, such as uranium enrichment*. 

Did the Iranian readiness to implement these ideas almost verbatim not present a unique opportunity to create a global model to strengthen the NPT and remove concerns about fuel cycle activities based on the recommendation of the best international experts brought together by the IAEA for this exact purpose? Was any other country with similar technology prepared to be as flexible as Iran? Did the United States and its European allies seriously consider our detailed reply of 22 August 2006, which, unlike their practice, provided a point-by-point reply to their 6 June package and made genuine proposals to address its shortcomings? All I know is that they even refused to refer to it in the present resolution.

Did they discuss the offer of an international consortium which was presented by Iran in the course of the September and October 2006 negotiations in Vienna and Berlin and was initially considered very promising, leading to public statements of progress after those meetings — a prognosis that was rapidly and astonishingly reversed even before the ministerial meeting of the five-plus-one?

Many other similar questions may be asked. But the answer to all of them will be the same, because what the United States, and apparently the EU-3 — in spite of what they told us during the negotiations — wanted, and the only outcome that they were and are ready to accept from these so-called negotiations, was — and still is — that Iran should *make a binding commitment not to pursue fuel cycle activities*, as it is phrased in package proposed by the EU-3, of August 2005.

We are here because we did not accept that unlawful demand, which, as many here already know, would not have been their last demand. At the same time, we were prepared to go to any length to allay their so-called proliferation concerns, in spite of the fact that we all know that these are no more than sheer unfounded and self-serving excuses. Indeed, old-hand proliferators and suppliers of chemical weapons and nuclear weapon technology can hardly have proliferation concerns.

The sponsors tell you that they do not trust our intentions. But the problem is that their “intentionometer” has a rather abysmal record of chronic malfunction. Suffice it to say that the former United States Director of Central Intelligence, Robert Gates, in testimony before Congress in March 1992, claimed that Iran was trying to acquire a nuclear weapons capability and added that this goal was unlikely to be achieved before the year 2000 — seven years ago. Later, in November of the same year, a draft National Intelligence Estimate by the same Central Intelligence Agency concluded that Iran was making progress on a nuclear arms programme and could develop a nuclear weapon by 2000 — seven years ago. Now, the same intelligence establishment is saying, not before 2015.

Accusing Iran of having “the intention” of acquiring nuclear weapons has, since the early 1980s, been a tool used to deprive Iran of any nuclear technology, even a light water reactor or fuel for the American-built research reactor. I wonder which “Iranian intention” or which “proliferation concern” has prompted the main proponents of today’s resolution to prevent Iran, for the past 27 years, from even acquiring civilian aircraft — or even spare parts for the civilian aircraft they sold to Iran, thereby jeopardizing the lives and safety of Iranian civilians, whom they hypocritically try to court these days — and, I might add, to no avail.

As IAEA Director General [ElBaradei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohamed_ElBaradei) recently said,  *A lot of what you see about Iran right now is assessment of intentions ... But one of the lessons we learned from Iraq is that we really need to be very, very careful coming to conclusions, because these issues make the difference between war and peace*.

As we are talking about intentions, while the main proponents of the resolution may have self-servingly claimed that they doubt ours, they themselves have said and done plenty so that no body in Iran or elsewhere in the world could have any illusions about theirs: one need only read the recent dangerously divisive statement by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. Or take a look at the 23 August report by the staff of the Intelligence Committee of the United States House of Representatives on Iran’s nuclear programme. That report was so dangerously misleading and so illustrative of the extent to which some war-mongers are prepared to go that it compelled the IAEA to officially dispute its allegations against Iran. In its letter, the IAEA called parts of the report “outrageous and dishonest” and containing “incorrect and misleading assertions”, and it offered evidence to refute the report’s central claims. The Agency stressed that the report even seriously distorted IAEA findings on Iran’s nuclear activities.

Let me conclude by reiterating that the Islamic Republic of Iran firmly believes that the days of weapons of mass murder have long passed, that these inhumane instruments of indiscriminate slaughter have not brought about internal stability or external security for anyone and that they will not be able to do so in the future.

Unlike some who despise the NPT and international law in general, we have a high stake in preserving, fully implementing, strengthening and universalizing the NPT. Today’s decision does exactly the opposite; That should be no surprise because it was championed by a non-member of the NPT, coupled with its main benefactor, which made no secret of its contempt for this and other disarmament instruments. None of us has forgotten last year’s World Summit when even the word “disarmament” was removed by the famous “red pen”.

By the same token, we believe that the days of bullying, pressure and intimidation by some nuclear weapon holders are long gone. We are told that we need to build confidence. Indeed, we all do in this tumultuous world. But confidence can only be built through respect for and the non-discriminatory application of the law. Those are the only objective criteria. Anything else would be to accept the whims of the powerful. International law and international treaties cannot be the subject of arbitrary, fluctuating and self-serving reinterpretations, readjustments or red lines even if they are connivingly imposed through resolutions. Such a precedent is dangerous for everyone.

The Security Council would go a long way in addressing its own confidence deficit by truly acting on behalf of the United Nations membership, as mandated by Article 24 of the Charter. Nearly two thirds of them are members of the Non-Aligned Movement or the Organization of Islamic Conference which, at the summit level, have reaffirmed that *States’ choices and decisions in the field of peaceful uses of nuclear technology and its fuel cycle policies must be respected*, and have *expressed concern over ... threats and pressures on Iran by certain circles to renounce its inalienable right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes*. They have also clarified where the real threat to international peace and security does in fact lie, by, again at the summit level, *expressing grave concern over the acquisition of nuclear capability by Israel, which poses a serious and continuing threat to the security of neighbouring and other States*.

That is the real issue that States Members of the United Nations expected the Security Council to be seized of.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2006-07-31-pv5500-res1696-2006-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2007-03-24-pv5647-res1747-2007-ip/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2006-12-23-pv5612-res1737-2006-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
