---
title: UNSC Meeting 7488 – 2015-07-20 – Resolution 2231(2015)
slug: 2015-07-20-pv7488-res2231-2015-ip
date: 2025-04-01 00:00:00 UTC+00:00
tags: 
category: 
link: 
description: Resolution 2231 (2015) – 2015-07-20
type: text
hidetitle: false
---

<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2010-06-09-pv6335-res1929-2010-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/introduction1/">➡️</a></th>     
</tr></table>

United Nations Security Council S/PV.7488

Seventieth year, 7488<sup>th</sup> meeting

Monday, 20 July 2015, 9 a.m.

New York

Agenda: Non-proliferation

Resolution 2231 (2015) Voting: 15-0-0

Voting performed before delivery of statement by Iran.

Extracted from Meeting Record: [https://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.7488](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/PV.7488?direct=true#page=13) p.13

Resolution: [https://www.undocs.org/en/S/RES/2231(2015)](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true)

<br>
**Representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran:** [**Mr. Khoshroo**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gholamali_Khoshroo)
<!-- wikipedia has link but no article on Mr. Khoshroo-->
  
Today’s adoption by the Council of resolution [2231 (2015)](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true) marks a significant development and a fundamental shift in the Council’s consideration of Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme over the past 10 years. The [Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/RES/2231%282015%29?direct=true#page=8) is the result of an extensive series of collective efforts that for close to two years have sought to give diplomacy a chance and end resorts to pressure, coercion and threats. That fundamentally different approach, a departure from the path travelled in previous years, has helped all of us to opt for the best possible way out, put an end to an unnecessary crisis and accomplish a major achievement for all the parties involved and the international community as a whole.

Today’s resolution and the Plan of Action that it endorses also provide for terminating the Security Council resolutions that placed unjustifiable sanctions on Iran for its efforts to exercise its rights. The sanctions were grounded on nothing but baseless and pure speculation and hearsay. Nobody has ever presented any proof that Iran’s programme has been anything but peaceful. The International Atomic Energy Agency, which has put Iran’s facilities through a record number of inspections, has consistently reported that Iran has duly stood by every single one of its commitments. For example, in terms of inspection frequency, only Japan has been subject to greater scrutiny than Iran, while Japan has far more extensive nuclear facilities. Last year, Iran even surpassed Japan in the number of inspections it was subjected to.

The Security Council’s involvement was thus not based on a suspicious nuclear weapon programme; it was driven by the objective stated in resolution [1696 (2006)](https://www.undocs.org/en/S/RES/1696%282006%29?direct=true), of compelling Iran to suspend its lawful enrichment programme. That demand was not only unnecessary and uncalled for, but also ran counter to the unanimous conclusions of the [2000](https://www.iaea.org/topics/npt-review-conferences?direct=true) and [2010](https://www.un.org/en/conf/npt/2010/direct=true) Review Conferences of the Parties to the [Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons](https://www.iaea.org/sites/default/files/publications/documents/infcircs/1970/infcirc140.pdf?direct=true), which stipulated that Member States’ choices with regard to their fuel-cycle activities must be respected. It also ignored the repeated demands of the majority of the international community represented in the [Non-Aligned Movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-Aligned_Movement). 

The sanctions imposed on Iran by resolution 1737 (2006) through resolution 1929 (2010) were all punishments for the Iranian people’s refusal to accept that demand. In engaging with the E3+3, the Iranian people have had the foresight to move forward without losing sight of the past. While we therefore hope that the Security Council will open a new chapter in its relations with us, we cannot accept or forget its previous treatment of Iran, starting with its inaction in the face of Saddam’s aggression and use of chemical weapons and continuing through its more recent approach to Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme.

The solution we have arrived at is undoubtedly in the interests of strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime in its entirety, since it includes and recognizes Iran’s right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, including conducting uranium enrichment activities and research and development on its territory. The rights and obligations of States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), as under any other international regime, must go hand in hand. Obligations can be honoured and such regimes, including that of the NPT, can be sustained only if those rights are also achievable. No threats of sanctions or war can sustain the NPT in the long run if the great Powers fail to honour all three of its pillars, including total nuclear disarmament and the right of all to use nuclear energy, and if non-parties are rewarded for their Resolution 2231 (2015) Voting: 15-0-0 intransigence.

Looking to the future, my Government hopes that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and resolution 2231 (2015) herald a new chapter in the relationship between Iran, the Council and the Plan of Action’s participants. Iran is both able and willing to comply fully with its commitments under the Plan of Action, because it is already committed to the fatwa of its Supreme Leader, who has declared all weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, to be haram, or forbidden, which is also a principle of Iran’s defence doctrine. We hope that our partners and the Council will do the same with regard to their commitments under the same documents.

The desire that the Council has expressed for building a new relationship with Iran, its encouragement of all Member States to cooperate with Iran within the framework of the Plan of Action in the area of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and related projects, and its emphasis on the fact that the Plan of Action can help to promote and facilitate the development of normal economic and trade contacts and cooperation with Iran are all positive and encouraging signs.

While this deal focuses on the nuclear issue, Iran expects it to have broader positive implications for our region and the entire international community that include the following. First, the deal, sealed on the basis of mutual respect and understanding, is an important victory for diplomacy over the pressure and coercion exerted on Iran, which have produced no results over the past 37 years. It reinforces our faith in diplomacy as the most rational way to resolve differences in our interconnected world, and it shows that diplomacy can work and prevail over war and tension. It therefore sends a clear message to those who still believe they can achieve anything through force and coercion.

Secondly, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action has the potential to help trigger major developments in the region aimed at achieving greater cooperation and coordination in addressing the real issues at hand. We therefore earnestly hope that it helps turn a page in our region that can enable countries to close ranks, fight resolutely against violent extremism and move towards greater cooperation in addressing the grave threats facing the region and the world. While every country in the region has a very high stake in defeating terrorism, violent extremism and sectarianism, the Plan of Action’s participants are facing similar challenges to their security from such phenomena. With the dust settled over the nuclear issue, we are now free to focus on real issues and to benefit from an improved environment conducive to wider cooperation among all actors.

Thirdly, in the wake of this major development in the region, we renew our confirmation to our neighbours and friends in the Persian Gulf and the wider region that Iran is ready to engage in good faith with all of them based on mutual respect, good-neighbourliness and brotherhood. We have many common challenges in our region to address and many common opportunities to benefit from. This is the time to start working together against our most common and important challenges, which include above all violent extremism.

Fourthly, the Israeli regime, following its general policy to stoke tension in the region, has done all in its power to sabotage and defeat any effort to resolve the standoff over Iran’s nuclear energy programme. In so doing, it has proved once more that it does not see peace in our region to be in its interest and considers peace to be an existential threat to itself. The Iranophobia that it tries to spread in the region and beyond also serves that nefarious purpose. We therefore alert our friends and neighbours not to fall into Israel’s trap.

In this context, it is also not surprising that the Israeli regime is the only obstacle in the way of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East, the concept for which my country initiated more than 40 years ago and has promoted ever since. We believe that the nuclear warheads stockpiled by the Israeli regime constitute a grave threat to peace and security in our unstable region, and that the Security Council should live up to its primary responsibility under the Charter of the United Nations and take the action necessary to neutralize this threat.

To conclude, let me recall that Iran, a nation with a rich culture and civilization, has withstood enormous millennial storms while being steadfast in preserving its independence and identity. These have not been acquired by oppressing others or reneging on commitments. The steadfastness that our delegation showed during the negotiations was based on the fact that we only accept commitments that we can abide by. As Iran is resolute in fulfilling its obligations, we expect that our counterparts shall also remain faithful to theirs. Only by honouring commitments, displaying good faith and adopting the right approach can we ensure that diplomacy will prevail over conflict and war in a world that is replete with violence, suffering and oppression. In this context, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action provides a solid foundation for further and more effective diplomatic interaction.

Let me thank those Ambassadors who supported the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and those countries that helped this deal to happen. I also wish to briefly react to some baseless accusations leveled by some speakers in today’s meeting. It is ironic that the Ambassador of the United States accused my Government of destabilizing the region and of terrorism. The country that invaded two countries of our region and created grounds favourable to the growth of terrorism and extremism is not well placed to raise such accusations against mine. The feckless and reckless actions of the United States in our region over many years are at the root of many challenges that we are now facing in our neighbourhood. Iran is a stable country in an unstable region. As we want our stability to endure, we promote stability in the region and help our neighbours to stabilize and cooperate towards that end.

In conclusion, let me also inform you, Mr. President, that my delegation, upon instruction from my Government, is forwarding the statement of the Islamic Republic of Iran following the action taken today by the Security Council, to be circulated as a document of the Security Council.

<hr>
<table><tr>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2010-06-09-pv6335-res1929-2010-ip/">⬅️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement1/introduction1/">➡️</a></th>
  <th scope="col" style="width: 50px;"><a href="/en/statement/2015-07-20-pv7488-res2231-2015-ip/">⬆️</a></th>      
</tr></table>
